README.md, before:

# Create Script Folders and Assemblies with Tests

[![Meta file check](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/metacheck.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/metacheck.yml)
[![Test](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![openupm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests?label=openupm&registry_uri=https://package.openupm.com)](https://openupm.com/packages/com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests/)

This Unity editor extensions create script folders (Editor, Runtime, and each Tests) containing assembly definition file (.asmdef).


## Features

When opening the context menu and select **Create | C# Script Folders and Assemblies with Tests**,
The root folder (e.g., named "YourFeature") and below will be created as follows.

### Creating folders and asmdefs

#### Using under Assets folder

```
Assets
└── YourFeature
   ├── Scripts
   │   ├── Editor
   │   │   └── YourFeature.Editor.asmdef
   │   └── Runtime
   │       └── YourFeature.asmdef
   └── Tests
       ├── Editor
       │   └── YourFeature.Editor.Tests.asmdef
       └── Runtime
           └── YourFeature.Tests.asmdef
```

#### Using under Packages folder

```
Packages
└── your.package.name
   └── YourFeature
      ├── Editor
      │   └── YourFeature.Editor.asmdef
      ├── Runtime
      │   └── YourFeature.asmdef
      └── Tests
          ├── Editor
          │   └── YourFeature.Editor.Tests.asmdef
          └── Runtime
              └── YourFeature.Tests.asmdef
```

Package folder (e.g., named "your.package.name") must be created in before.
Because can not open the context menu directly under the Packages folder.

After creating folders, move the Editor, Runtime and Tests folders directly under the "your.package.name" folder.
And remove the "YourFeature" folder.
Then it will be the same as the official [package layout](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/cus-layout.html).

```
Packages
└── your.package.name
   ├── Editor
   │   └── YourFeature.Editor.asmdef
   ├── Runtime
   │   └── YourFeature.asmdef
   └── Tests
       ├── Editor
       │   └── YourFeature.Editor.Tests.asmdef
       └── Runtime
           └── YourFeature.Tests.asmdef
```

> **Warning**  
> Move folders using JetBrains Rider.
> Because to update DotSettings files (see below).


### Assembly Definition References in asmdefs

"Assembly Definition References" in each asmdef are set as follows.

- `YourFeature.Editor` has references to `YourFeature`
- `YourFeature` has not references
- `YourFeature.Tests` has references to `YourFeature`
- `YourFeature.Editor.Tests` has references to `YourFeature` and `YourFeature.Editor`


### Creating DotSettings files

And creating .csproj.DotSettings file for each assembly.
This file is set up to make the [Namespace does not correspond to file location](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/CheckNamespace.html) inspection work as expected in JetBrains Rider.
Do not forget to commit .DotSettings files for that project.

Specifically, disabled the [Namespace provider](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Refactorings__Adjust_Namespaces.html) for the following folders.

- Scripts
- Scripts/Runtime
- Tests
- Tests/Runtime

This will result in the expected namespace per folder as follows.

- Scripts/Editor: YourFeature.Editor
- Scripts/Runtime: YourFeature
- Tests/Editor: YourFeature.Editor
- Tests/Runtime: YourFeature

> **Warning**  
> Under Packages namespace resolution works with Unity 2020.2 or later.
> Because to use the Root Namespace property of asmdef.

See also: [Code Inspections in C# | JetBrains Rider Documentation](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Reference__Code_Inspections_CSHARP.html)


## Installation

If you installed [openupm-cli](https://github.com/openupm/openupm-cli), run the command below

```bash
openupm add com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests
```

Or open Package Manager window (Window | Package Manager) and add package from git URL

```
https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests.git
```


## License

MIT License


## How to contribute

Open an issue or create a pull request.

Be grateful if you could label the PR as `enhancement`, `bug`, `chore` and `documentation`. See [PR Labeler settings](.github/pr-labeler.yml) for automatically labeling from the branch name.


## Release workflow

Run `Actions | Create release pull request | Run workflow` and merge created PR.
(Or bump version in package.json on default branch)

Then, Will do the release process automatically by [Release](.github/workflows/release.yml) workflow.
And after tagged, OpenUPM retrieves the tag and updates it.

Do **NOT** manually operation the following operations:

- Create release tag
- Publish draft releases

Commit message:

Add How to development section in README.md

README.md, after:

# Create Script Folders and Assemblies with Tests

[![Meta file check](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/metacheck.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/metacheck.yml)
[![Test](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![openupm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests?label=openupm&registry_uri=https://package.openupm.com)](https://openupm.com/packages/com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests/)

This Unity editor extensions create script folders (Editor, Runtime, and each Tests) containing assembly definition file (.asmdef).


## Features

When opening the context menu and select **Create | C# Script Folders and Assemblies with Tests**,
The root folder (e.g., named "YourFeature") and below will be created as follows.

### Creating folders and asmdefs

#### Using under Assets folder

```
Assets
└── YourFeature
   ├── Scripts
   │   ├── Editor
   │   │   └── YourFeature.Editor.asmdef
   │   └── Runtime
   │       └── YourFeature.asmdef
   └── Tests
       ├── Editor
       │   └── YourFeature.Editor.Tests.asmdef
       └── Runtime
           └── YourFeature.Tests.asmdef
```

#### Using under Packages folder

```
Packages
└── your.package.name
   └── YourFeature
      ├── Editor
      │   └── YourFeature.Editor.asmdef
      ├── Runtime
      │   └── YourFeature.asmdef
      └── Tests
          ├── Editor
          │   └── YourFeature.Editor.Tests.asmdef
          └── Runtime
              └── YourFeature.Tests.asmdef
```

Package folder (e.g., named "your.package.name") must be created in before.
Because can not open the context menu directly under the Packages folder.

After creating folders, move the Editor, Runtime and Tests folders directly under the "your.package.name" folder.
And remove the "YourFeature" folder.
Then it will be the same as the official [package layout](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/cus-layout.html).

```
Packages
└── your.package.name
   ├── Editor
   │   └── YourFeature.Editor.asmdef
   ├── Runtime
   │   └── YourFeature.asmdef
   └── Tests
       ├── Editor
       │   └── YourFeature.Editor.Tests.asmdef
       └── Runtime
           └── YourFeature.Tests.asmdef
```

> **Warning**  
> Move folders using JetBrains Rider.
> Because to update DotSettings files (see below).


### Assembly Definition References in asmdefs

"Assembly Definition References" in each asmdef are set as follows.

- `YourFeature.Editor` has references to `YourFeature`
- `YourFeature` has not references
- `YourFeature.Tests` has references to `YourFeature`
- `YourFeature.Editor.Tests` has references to `YourFeature` and `YourFeature.Editor`


### Creating DotSettings files

And creating .csproj.DotSettings file for each assembly.
This file is set up to make the [Namespace does not correspond to file location](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/CheckNamespace.html) inspection work as expected in JetBrains Rider.
Do not forget to commit .DotSettings files for that project.

Specifically, disabled the [Namespace provider](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Refactorings__Adjust_Namespaces.html) for the following folders.

- Scripts
- Scripts/Runtime
- Tests
- Tests/Runtime

This will result in the expected namespace per folder as follows.

- Scripts/Editor: YourFeature.Editor
- Scripts/Runtime: YourFeature
- Tests/Editor: YourFeature.Editor
- Tests/Runtime: YourFeature

> **Warning**  
> Under Packages namespace resolution works with Unity 2020.2 or later.
> Because to use the Root Namespace property of asmdef.

See also: [Code Inspections in C# | JetBrains Rider Documentation](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/rider/Reference__Code_Inspections_CSHARP.html)


## Installation

If you installed [openupm-cli](https://github.com/openupm/openupm-cli), run the command below

```bash
openupm add com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests
```

Or open Package Manager window (Window | Package Manager) and add package from git URL

```
https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests.git
```


## License

MIT License


## How to contribute

Open an issue or create a pull request.

Be grateful if you could label the PR as `enhancement`, `bug`, `chore` and `documentation`. See [PR Labeler settings](.github/pr-labeler.yml) for automatically labeling from the branch name.


## How to development

Add this repository as a submodule to the Packages/ directory in your project.

Run the command below:

```bash
git submodule add https://github.com/nowsprinting/create-script-folders-with-tests.git Packages/com.nowsprinting.create-script-folders-with-tests
```


## Release workflow

Run `Actions | Create release pull request | Run workflow` and merge created PR.
(Or bump version in package.json on default branch)

Then, Will do the release process automatically by [Release](.github/workflows/release.yml) workflow.
And after tagged, OpenUPM retrieves the tag and updates it.

Do **NOT** manually operation the following operations:

- Create release tag
- Publish draft releases
